Add more REST API docs (assets, campaigns, categories, fields) (#100)
mautic/developer-documentation-new: docs/rest_api/fields.rst

Fields
######

Use this endpoint to work with Mautic's Contact/Company fields.

**Using Mautic's API Library**

You can interact with this API through the :xref:`Mautic API Library` as follows, or use the various http endpoints as described in this document.

.. code-block:: php

   <?php
   use Mautic\MauticApi;
   use Mautic\Auth\ApiAuth;

   // ...
   $initAuth = new ApiAuth();
   $auth     = $initAuth->newAuth($settings);
   $apiUrl   = "https://your-mautic.com";
   $api      = new MauticApi();
   $assetApi = $api->newApi("assets", $auth, $apiUrl);

   // Get Contact field context:
   $fieldApi = $api->newApi("contactFields", $auth, $apiUrl);

   // Or use 'companyFields' for company fields:
   $fieldApi = $api->newApi("companyFields", $auth, $apiUrl);

> .. vale off

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Get field
*********

> .. vale on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

     - ``datetime``
     - Date/time field got created
   * - ``createdBy``
     - int
     - ID of the User that created the field
   * - ``createdByUser``
     - string
     - Name of the User that created the field
   * - ``dateModified``
     - datetime/null
     - Date/time field was last modified
   * - ``modifiedBy``
     - int
     - ID of the User that last modified the field
   * - ``modifiedByUser``
     - string
     - Name of the User that last modified the field
   * - ``label``
     - string
     - Name of the field
   * - ``alias``
     - string
     - Unique alias of the field used in the Form Field name attributes
   * - ``description``
     - string/null
     - Description of the field
   * - ``type``
     - string
     - Field type
   * - ``group``
     - string
     - Group of the fields where the field belongs 
   * - ``order``
     - int
     - Order number of the field
   * - ``object``
     - string
     - Which object use the field. Contact or Company.
   * - ``defaultValue``
     - string
     - Default value of the field.
   * - ``isRequired``
     - boolean
     - ``true`` if this is a required field.
   * - ``isPubliclyUpdatable``
     - boolean

>      - ``true`` if the field value can get changed from public requests. The tracking pixel query for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - ``true`` if the field value can be changed from public requests - the tracking pixel query for example
```

   * - ``isUniqueIdentifier``
     - boolean
     - ``true`` if the field is unique identifier and so the Contacts should merge if the value of this field is the same.
   * - ``properties``
     - array
     - Field options if the field type needs some. 

.. vale off

> List contact fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
List Contact fields
```

.. code-block:: json

   {  
     "total":71,
     "fields":[  
       {  
         "isPublished":true,
         "dateAdded":"2016-10-12T11:31:13+00:00",
         "createdBy":1,
         "createdByUser":"John Doe",
         "dateModified":"2016-10-12T11:31:30+00:00",
         "modifiedBy":1,
         "modifiedByUser":"John Doe",
         "id":100,
         "label":"Multiselect test",
         "alias":"multiselect_test",
         "type":"multiselect",
         "group":"core",
         "order":3,
         "object":"lead",
         "defaultValue":null,
         "isRequired":false,
         "isPubliclyUpdatable":false,
         "isUniqueIdentifier":false,
         "properties":{  
           "list":[  
             {  
               "label":"PHP",
               "value":"php"
             },
             {  
               "label":"JS",
               "value":"js"
             },
             {  
               "label":"English",
               "value":"en"
             }
           ]
         }
       },
     ]
   }

**Query Parameters**

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Name
     - Description
   * - ``search``

>      - String or search command to filter entities by.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - String or search command to filter entities by
```

   * - ``start``

>      - Starting row for the entities returned. Defaults to 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Starting row for the entities returned, defaults to 0
```

   * - ``limit``

>      - Limit number of entities to return. Defaults to the system configuration for pagination, which defaults to 30.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Limit number of entities to return, defaults to the system configuration for pagination - defaults to 30
```

   * - ``orderBy``

>      - Column to sort by. Can use any column listed in the response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Column to sort by, can use any column listed in the response
```

   * - ``orderByDir``

>      - Sort direction: ``asc`` or ``desc``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Sort direction: ``asc`` or ``desc``
```

   * - ``publishedOnly``

>      - Only return currently published entities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Only return currently published entities
```

   * - ``minimal``

>      - Return only array of entities without additional lists in it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Return only array of entities without additional lists in it
```

.. vale off

**HTTP Request**

.. vale on

``GET /fields/contact`` or ``GET /fields/company``

**Response**

``Expected Response Code: 200``

See JSON code example.

**Field Properties**

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Name
     - Type
     - Description
   * - ``id``
     - int
     - ID of the field
   * - ``isPublished``
     - boolean
     - Published state
   * - ``publishUp``
     - datetime/null

>      - Date/time when the field should get published

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Field publish date/time
```

   * - ``publishDown``
     - datetime/null

>      - Date/time the field should get unpublished

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Field unpublish date/time
```

   * - ``dateAdded``
     - ``datetime``

>      - Date/time field got created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Field creation date/time
```

   * - ``createdBy``
     - int
     - ID of the User that created the field
   * - ``createdByUser``
     - string
     - Name of the User that created the field
   * - ``dateModified``
     - datetime/null
     - Date/time field was last modified
   * - ``modifiedBy``
     - int
     - ID of the User that last modified the field
   * - ``modifiedByUser``
     - string
     - Name of the User that last modified the field
   * - ``label``
     - string
     - Name of the field
   * - ``alias``
     - string
     - Unique alias of the field used in the Form Field name attributes
   * - ``description``
     - string/null
     - Description of the field
   * - ``type``
     - string
     - Field type
   * - ``group``
     - string
     - Group of the fields where the field belongs 
   * - ``order``
     - int
     - Order number of the field
   * - ``object``
     - string

>      - Which object use the field. Contact or Company.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Which object uses the field\ Contact or Company
```

   * - ``defaultValue``
     - string

>      - Default value of the field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Default value of the field
```

   * - ``isRequired``
     - boolean

>      - ``true`` if this is a required field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - ``true`` if this is a required field
```

   * - ``isPubliclyUpdatable``
     - boolean

>      - ``true`` if the field value can get changed from public requests. The tracking pixel query for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - ``true`` if the field value can be changed from public requests - the tracking pixel query for example
```

   * - ``isUniqueIdentifier``
     - boolean

>      - ``true`` if the field is unique identifier and so the Contacts should merge if the value of this field is the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - ``true`` if the field is a unique identifier therefore Contacts should merge if the value of this field is the same
```

   * - ``properties``
     - array

>      - Field options if the field type needs some. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Field options if the field type needs some
```

.. vale off

Create field
************

.. vale on

.. code-block:: php

   <?php 

   $data = array(
       'label' => 'API test field',
       'type' => 'text',
   );

   $field = $fieldApi->create($data);

> **Multiselect Field**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Multiselect field**
```

.. code-block:: php

   <?php

   $data = array(
       'label' => 'API test field',
       'type' => 'multiselect',
       'isPubliclyUpdatable' => true,
       'properties' => array(
          'list' => array(
             array(
               'label' => 'label 1',
               'value' => 'value 1'
             ),
             array(
               'label' => 'label 2',
               'value' => 'value 2'
             )
           )
       )
   );

   $field = $fieldApi->create($data);

Create a new field.

.. vale off

**HTTP Request**

.. vale on

``POST /fields/contact/new`` or ``POST /fields/company/new``

> **POST Parameters**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**POST parameters**
```

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Name
     - Type
     - Description
   * - ``label``
     - string
     - Name of the field
   * - ``alias``
     - string
     - Unique alias of the field used in the Form Field name attributes
   * - ``description``
     - string/null
     - Description of the field
   * - ``type``
     - string
     - Field type
   * - ``group``
     - string
     - Group of the fields where the field belongs 
   * - ``order``
     - int
     - Order number of the field
   * - ``object``
     - string

>      - Which object use the field. Contact or Company.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Which object uses the field, Contact or Company
```

   * - ``defaultValue``
     - string
     - Default value of the field.
   * - ``isRequired``
     - boolean

>      - ``true`` if this is a required field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - ``true`` if this is a required field
```

   * - ``isPubliclyUpdatable``
     - boolean

>      - ``true`` if the field value can get changed from public requests. The tracking pixel query for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - ``true`` if the field value can be changed from public requests - the tracking pixel query for example
```

   * - ``isUniqueIdentifier``
     - boolean

>      - ``true`` if the field is unique identifier and so the Contacts should merge if the value of this field is the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - ``true`` if the field is unique identifier and so the Contacts should merge if the value of this field is the same
```

   * - ``properties``
     - array

>      - Field options if the field type needs some. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Field options if the field type needs some
```

   $field = $fieldApi->edit($id, $data, $createIfNotFound);

Edit a new field. Field that this supports PUT or PATCH depending on the desired behavior.

**PUT** creates a field if the given ID doesn't exist.
**PATCH** fails if the field with the given ID doesn't exist and updates the field values with the values field the request.

.. vale off

**HTTP Request**

.. vale on

To edit a field and return a 404 if the field isn't found:

``PATCH /fields/contact/ID/edit`` or ``PATCH /fields/company/ID/edit``

To edit a field and create a new one if the field isn't found:

``PUT /fields/contact/ID/edit`` or ``PUT /fields/company/ID/edit``

**POST Parameters**

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Name
     - Type
     - Description
   * - ``label``
     - string
     - Name of the field
   * - ``alias``
     - string
     - Unique alias of the field used in the Form Field name attributes
   * - ``description``
     - string/null
     - Description of the field
   * - ``type``
     - string
     - Field type
   * - ``group``
     - string
     - Group of the fields where the field belongs 
   * - ``order``
     - int
     - Order number of the field
   * - ``object``
     - string

>      - Which object use the field. Contact or Company.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Which object uses the field, Contact or Company
```

   * - ``defaultValue``
     - string

>      - Default value of the field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Default value of the field
```

   * - ``isRequired``
     - boolean

>      - ``true`` if this is a required field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - ``true`` if this is a required field
```

   * - ``isPubliclyUpdatable``
     - boolean

>      - ``true`` if the field value can get changed from public requests. The tracking pixel query for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - ``true`` if the field value can be changed from public requests - the tracking pixel query for example
```

   * - ``isUniqueIdentifier``
     - boolean

>      - ``true`` if the field is unique identifier and so the Contacts should merge if the value of this field is the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - ``true`` if the field is a unique identifier and therefore Contacts should merge if the value of this field is the same
```

   * - ``properties``
     - array

>      - Field options if the field type needs some. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Field options if the field type needs some.
```

**Response**

> If ``PUT``, the expected response code is ``200`` if the field got edited or ``201`` if created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using ``PUT``, the expected response code is ``200`` if editing the field or ``201`` if creating the field.
```

> If ``PATCH``, the expected response code is ``200``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using ``PATCH``, the expected response code is ``200``.
```
